I've come to the Royal Observatory in
Greenwich one of my favourite places and
a real landmark of British astronomy I'm
here to meet a group of stargazers who
all live nearby in London I want to know
about their experience of astronomy in
the city and find out how they're
affected by light pollution so society
what is it that you find frustrating
about light pollution
um it's just a glow really the glow in
the sky that prevents me from seeing the
things I want to see you know a
particularly when I'm with my children
because they see all the images in books
and on the TV and there's a question you
asked is well why can't we see things
like that it's constant really your eyes
never get adapted freely to the night
sky security lights activating by
animals and Gardens it's constantly
flushing and of course street lights are
a major problem almost completely robs
you of the fainter stars and some of the
brightest stars you can't even see close
to the horizon physicists constant
orange glow it's there all the time when
Greenwich Observatory was first founded
in the 1600s it was a long way outside
the centre of London but now it looks
straight out over the city
and all these lights from the Millennium
Dome to the individual streetlight have
blocked the sky from view as London
astronomers these guys rarely get to
experience proper darkness so I'm going
to take them somewhere to see what the
stars are like without the orange glow
we're going to take you guys to a proper
dark sky what kind of things you looking
for I would like to see a naked eye view
of the andromeda galaxy which people say
it's possible and that would really make
my day
absolutely I'm longing to see the Milky
Way just love seeing it on photographs
is absolutely beautiful so just to see
that my own eyes
be a dream really really would how about
yourself Jane what you're looking
forward to seeing dying to see a galaxy
any galaxy will do and just just yeah
just being able to see it with my own
eyes in real time there's something
that's just so far away and it would wow
me so to fulfill the wishes of the city
astronomers we're leaving the bright
lights behind and heading somewhere
really really dark now we've come all
the way from London
yeah I've been diligently keeping your
heads down to the ground suspense is two
one
beautiful it's amazing it's just so much
there to say
just so many stars it's really is
overwhelming it's disorientated
beautiful this is the row right stone
circle in the Cotswolds it's so dark
here that we have to use a special light
intensifying camera that's thousands of
times more sensitive than any normal
camera so now can tell you away for just
a moment most of it but that were
challenged for you okay you have to work
for this for the challenges can you see
4/10 over in that direction we need my
laser pointer now just up there is the
constellation of Pegasus it's the winged
horse yeah but it's this big square of
Pegasus that we're interesting if you
search there yeah yeah I'm guessing you
could probably pick out those stars back
in London
your challenge is to count how many
stars you can see in the square of
Pegasus really yes I can't normally
count any inside it so normally from
London you can't see any I've got one oh
it might be discrepancy it's on the line
okay so if you can see 12 stars within
the square pegs that's a fantastic
measure of how darker sky is let's see
12 is incredible oops you two if what
you get now I've got a bit of a treat
for you if we take the top corner star
off the square of Pegasus and then we
hop the cross from that one to that one
up there and then we hop further over to
the north is one star there and then
another thing on there can you just make
out a fuzzy blob
you asked about there yeah yeah that is
the Andromeda galaxy mind-blowing isn't
it yeah
now we've seen some pretty incredible
things so far but the crowning glory the
thing now I'm pretty sure you wouldn't
get to see normally from from your homes
in London is that overhead running all
the way from the horizon over there
Milky Way it's it yeah fantastic and
that is actually the combined light from
all the stars in our galaxy and as you
can see this thousands and thousands of
them even our specialist cameras aren't
sensitive enough to pick up the Milky
Way but here it is in all its glory
taken on a long exposure from exactly
where we're standing it takes a moment
to take it all in Australia just never
seen so many stars it's such clarity
it's just awesome really is
just never seen it before which goes to
show the beauty of the night sky is
taken from us by light pollution
you